---
layout: post
title:  "Html questions and answers"
date:   2018-01-09 10:00:00 +0100
categories: html
---

[What is HTML, XML, XSLT](#what-is-html-xml-xslt)

[What is DOCTYPE?](#what-is-doctype)

[Structure of HTML document !](#)

[What is the difference between block and inline elements? !](#test)

[Strong](#test)

------
------
<br>

### What is HTML, XML, XSLT
__HTML__ (HyperText Markup Language) is the most basic building block of the Web.
It describes and defines the content of a webpage. Other technologies besides _HTML_ are generally used to describe a webpage's appearance/presentation _(CSS)_ or functionality/behavior _(JavaScript)_.

_HyperText_ refers to links that connect webpages to one another, either within a single website or between websites.
Links are a fundamental aspect of the Web. By uploading content to the Internet and linking it to pages created by other people, you become an active participant in the World Wide Web.

__XML__ is a markup language similar to _HTML_. It stands for Extensible Markup Language and is a W3C recommended specification as a general purpose markup language.
This means, unlike other markup languages, XML is not predefined so you must define your own tags.
The primary purpose of the language is the sharing of data across different systems, such as the Internet.

There are many languages based on XML, like XHTML, MathML, SVG, XUL, XBL, RSS, and RDF. You can also create your own.

__XSLT__ (Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations) is an _XML-based_ language used, in conjunction with specialized processing software, for the transformation of XML documents.
XSLT is most often used to convert data between different XML schemas or to convert XML data into web pages or PDF documents.


---
<br>
### What is Doctype
DOCTYPE describes the type of HTML. While there are technically different types, for 99.999% of the HTML you'll write `<!DOCTYPE html>`.
Browsers look for this doctype declaration to determine which rendering mode to use to render the website.


---
<br>
### structure
_head_: describes meta information about the site, such as the title, and provides links to scripts and stylesheets the site needs to render and behave correctly.

_body_: describes the actual content of the site that users will see.


---
<br>
### What is the difference between block and inline elements?
__block__ is a block-level element occupies the entire space of its parent element (container). Browsers typically display the block-level element with a newline both before and after the element.

_p_ - a big block of text that is separate from other pieces of text

__inline element__
an inline element does not start on a new line and only takes up as much width as necessary; only occupy the space bounded by the tags defining the element, instead of breaking the flow of the content.

_span_ is line of text, isn’t really separate from other pieces of text.


---
<br>
### strong
strong is smth important
